# What is new in version 2

The main change in eDESIGNER.v.2 is that it incorporates functionality from LillyMol to perform several tasks as BBT creation and incorporates library enumeration capabilities.

The dependences of BBT creator to rdKit have been removed and replaced with LillyMol to improve performance.
The old version relayed on the annotation of building blocks in functional-group annotated matrix files using LillyMol and then BBs were processed using rdKIT within BBT creator. 
Version 2 accepts as input files standard smiles files (un-headed space separated columns of smiles strings and IDs) as well as annotated building block files. When standard smiles files are used BBT creator will annotate the smiles files on the fly. This should be more convenient for the user.
Version 2 incorporates all the queries required to annotate smiles files and also reactions to prepare building blocks for libary enumeration.

The previous version of eDESIGNER relayed on the generation of a configuration file to perform enumeration using LillyMol, but this was a stand-alone process. 
The new version incorporates the capability of enumerating libraries directly from eDESIGNER. 
Furthermore it incorporates a new enumeration protocol that is based on the preparation of building blocks as isotopically labeled smiles and enumerations are conducted by linking isotopically labeled atoms.
This process enhances performance because complex reactions are applied to building blocks only and not to intermediates in the synthesis of final products. 
Also enables the detection of building blocks not matching the requirements of preparation reactions (and maybe unable to react physically in the lab).

The new enumeration system is more complex than the standart reaction-based one (explanation in file, [library_enumerations](./library_enumerations.md)) but it is efficient and able to enumerate several millions of compound per minute.

Finally te eDESIGNER enumerator is able to enumerate custom libraries not generated by eDESIGNER given a library topology token (lib_id) and a set of builiding blocks for each cycle. To learn how to generate a lib_id manually visit [how_to_generate_a_lib_id](./how_to_generate_a_lib_id.md)

New helper scripts are incorporated:

run_stats_analyzer.sh  runs statistics on building block type and reaction usage.

run_incompatibility_mapper.sh  creates several reports to inspect visually the incompatibilities of reaction and deprotections with functional groups.

run_find_libraries.sh  find libraries containing one of more reactions and / or deprotections

run_enumerate_library.sh  runs enumeration of compound for an eDESIGNER library using the building blocks generated by a eDESIGNER run or enumerates a custom library given a library token (see [how_to_generate_a_lib_id](how_to_generate_a_lib_id.md))

run_get_multireactions.sh  finds all the multireaction sequences generated by an eDESIGNER run and reports the ones not coded in the multireaction parameters. These should be added to the parameters in order to be able to enumerate that library. See explanation of what is a mutireaction sequence in file [library_enumerations](./library_enumerations.md). 

run_e_designer.sh  Verion 2 of eDESIGNER merges the old scripts run_e_designer.sh and run_lib_designer.sh into a single script.

run_e_bbt_creator.sh  This script operates in a similar way than in the previous version.

the script run_lib_design_interpreter is eliminated since it is not required any more to enumerate libraries.
